# Act I



Afterwords, It was said that her death lingered, like lullaby of some past lives it stayed on. It was said she might as well have been right, a life like that, was it even worth living, it was said that her father had, after all, knew what she knew, knew about it all and was after all proud. It was said on morning of this January a little girl of some seven jumped into this wide iced like river, made it solid choppy red for few harrowing hours, it was said revenge for this girl had already been done, that the family responsible had already lynched. It was said that the family was not lynched at all, that they had escaped through the last of the late night trains, that though the village chased after with they couldn't keep up. It was said she still sung late in night for anyone considerate, all they had to do was to come, and listen. It was said on a villa that faced that river, on whose banks it was built by hands later cut off, there was a diamond left still after independence, and which had late that night disappeared. 

The diamond had disappeared under this mistress. She was sleeping when it was gone, she was celebrating beforehand. The diamond had disappeared when it were jubilation, when men fought then laughed it off and girls were flirting with each other, when boys drank late till late in night and women forgot to look after them. It had disappeared when the family of Kumbh decided upon a little celebration to bid off Holi, a night to let everything spill so tomorrow morning could bring new beginnings. It was stolen because, after the death of the Patriarch, his mistress inherited everything, began to spread rumours about it. The diamond that had belonged for so long in the line of that family, that had not seen any hands not of there kin, was desecrated in 
