# Act I



Afterwords, It was said that her death lingered, like lullaby of some past lives it stayed on. It was said she might as well have been right, a life like that, was it even worth living, it was said that her father had, after all, knew what she knew, knew about it all and was after all proud. It was said on morning of this January a little girl of some seven jumped into this wide iced like river, made it solid choppy red for few harrowing hours, it was said revenge for this girl had already been done, that the family responsible had already lynched. It was said that the family was not lynched at all, that they had escaped through the last of the late night trains, that though the village chased after with they couldn't keep up. It was said she still sung late in night for anyone considerate, all they had to do was to come, and listen. It was said on a villa that faced that river, on whose banks it was built by hands later cut off, there was a diamond left still independence, and which had had disappeared. 

Some hours earlier sleep had came and her dream some minute earlier had began as well, in it she a balloon merchant selling to her family, her dead brother in her mother's arm, every balloon, and everything sharply thrown away by the slap of some drawer far away, in another land as if though it was the next room, the scream, the scream of her mother, she sobbingly then calling Maanak, Kairi, herself, Maanak, Kairi, herself again. But it was only her left there, all others had left so long ago. She ran through that door, the golden thread of bead like bells, her payal, thundering across this late in night and a droning gaped mouth ache, a contiguous moan of horrifying curses to everyone she could have thought off. Exactly a minute later lights in some other rooms lights were turned on, few more voices--quieter, more grave--soothing hers with empty child like assurances. She imagined they had hands over her shoulders, that though they were guards and maids they were talking over her, scolding her for screaming, her panicking self pitying screaming, assuring her her sweetness for doing it. Some minute later then, when it felt safe, when the guilt of pretending to next morning sleep through came, she founded herself slippers somewhere in dark herself and slowly trotted there as well. 

