# Act I



Afterwords, It was said that her death lingered, like lullaby of some past lives it stayed on. It was said she might as well have been right, a life like that, was it even worth living, it was said that her father had, after all, knew what she knew, knew about it all and was after all proud. It was said on morning of this January a little girl of some seven jumped into this wide iced like river, made it solid choppy red for few harrowing hours, it was said revenge for this girl had already been done, that the family responsible had already lynched. It was said that the family was not lynched at all, that they had escaped through the last of the late night trains, that though the village chased after with they couldn't keep up. It was said she still sung late in night for anyone considerate, all they had to do was to come, and listen. It was said on a villa that faced that river, on whose banks it was built by hands later cut off, there was a diamond left still independence, and which had had disappeared. 

Each night like some glacier of gold the villa would glitter upon shores of the running river, it's water never too far away from the many dangling legs of each room rented or simply given to, depending upon the day, someone wealthy, a friend, or merely someone of some considerable importance. A shrine for the rest of the village, a museum for those a bit daring--those who would try to sneak through in before one of the guards employed would catch and then like dogs shoo them away--until they were eventually be bribed and replaced, and for her a house, a bit bigger than usual, in which she had spend so much of her memorable childhood days. Just a few days ago she was invited, to her father's funeral, for he had suddenly died and her mother was devastated, and just a few days ago she had arrived. And here she was, late in night in one of those rooms--further away from the shore, less those lecherous eyes forever roaming on a boat or two caught her compromised--tumbling in her sleep with few of her stray blankets, some upon her bed, some fallen to the shore.

Then, late that night in sleep that had came to her, her dream as well, and in it she a balloon merchant selling to her family, her dead brother in her mother's arm, every balloon they wanted, and everything every balloon flying away by the slap of some drawer far away, she heard in another land as if though it was the next room, the scream, the scream of her mother, she sobbingly then calling Maanak, Kairi, herself, Maanak, Kairi, herself again. But it was only her left there, all others had left so long ago. She ran through that door, the golden thread of bead like bells, her payal, thundering across this late in night and a droning gaped mouth ache, a contiguous moan of horrifying curses to everyone she could have thought off. Exactly a minute later lights in some other rooms lights were turned on, few more voices--quieter, more grave--soothing hers with empty child like assurances. She imagined they had hands over her shoulders, that though they were guards and maids they were talking over her, scolding her for screaming, her panicking self pitying screaming, assuring her her sweetness for doing it. Some minute later then, when it felt safe, when the guilt of pretending to next morning sleep through came, she founded herself slippers somewhere in dark herself and slowly trotted there as well. 

All that she had for aid this deep in night were her memories, and she managed with fewer of her toes hitting odd edges, bruising it here and there, to present herself. In the grand room across the grand table her mother laid still, her one hand cupping her face, her eyes and her mouth, one thrown aside across the table--it's fingers oddly shaped, twitching here and there. At the bottom were Maa Kalaji, the head mistress, her head bowed as she clung to her mother's leg, pushing onto it and pushing onto it and singing her praises--in a lullaby, in her indigenous language no one understood--while upon another closer chair was staying the head guard himself, one Mr Ranjit she had only recently met and had kept herself away from, reading through the paper and unconcerned, wholly unaware save for a frown on his face of anything else. Several other chairs some far away some near were thrown as well, fallen to the floors, the light from midnight was only bathing her skin lunar red. 

"Maa, what happened"

But she did not responded 

"maa, tell me what happened" 

"we have been stolen" replied Ranjit "there was a thievery"

"when" she managed, barely not to scream back "how did it happened"

"we don't know, no one heard anything" he finally put the paper back--either read it completely or merely kept it for a more discreet, less intrusive moment--continued "we just heard your mother, Maa Kumbh" at which her mother nodded a simple, painful nod "scream when she came back just to check and witnessed it was gone"

"the Jewellery" she asked 

"the Jewellery in here" replied the head maid, her lullaby now over "it was the necklace"

She didn't said anything. She had never in her life seen that necklace, have only heard it in whispers as if to speak of it without confidence they had thought would endanger it, she had only once in life heard her mother talk about, contemplate forth, putting it on some really important event, but she stayed silent for else, she feared, her disappointment otherwise might have spilled away. 

"a boy took it" Ranjit added 

"a seven year old dark haired, dark skinned boy took it" suddenly then replied her mother, her sunken eyes like looking at the end of a dry well 

But she didn't replied. It was not some Jewellery, it was not money or keys to faraway properties they might or might not own, it was, to be crass, not something she did cared about, but it was something her mother did, and she feared if she spoke at all if she spoke anything, her mother would notice, it was only the silence, silence like she was remaining too stunned by the weight of this knowledge, that she thought could substitute. The maid below rose up to dipped her three fingers onto a bowl, a bowl of oil, dropped down to rub it across her pale exposed thigh. 

"Radha" she whispered, waited as if certain to be heard "what would we do"

"Maa, we need to find the thief"

"how would we find it"

"we would find him, we would have an FIR against him, we can have "