# Act I



Afterwords, It was said that her death lingered, like lullaby of some past lives it stayed on. It was said she might as well have been right, a life like that, was it even worth living, it was said that her father had, after all, knew what she knew, knew about it all and was after all proud. It was said on morning of this January a little girl of some seven jumped into this wide iced like river, made it solid choppy red for few harrowing hours, it was said revenge for this girl had already been done, that the family responsible had already lynched. It was said that the family was not lynched at all, that they had escaped through the last of the late night trains, that though the village chased after with they couldn't keep up. It was said she still sung late in night for anyone considerate, all they had to do was to come, and listen. It was said on a villa that faced that river, on whose banks it was built by hands later cut off, there was a diamond left still after independence, and which had late that night disappeared. 

The news of the steal spread fast upon the crack of the next day. It became the first thing to be talked about, the teachers gossiping as they walked to there schools, the pupils behind running as they whispered, the labourers or the blacksmiths sitting upon the sides wondering if some money could be made, or the women left behind in there houses, wondering about her irresponsibility, how they might have never let it happen. It was a boy of mere seventeen or something, from a different village who had came last night--who wore a red cloth or who wore all black--all alone or with few friends as he or they slipped with everyone else during the celebration, disappeared despite the security, and how it was only just now, this late in morning, when she noticed the gate of several of her rooms had been left open, that when she began to scream at those maids for what could have happened, what if they had stolen something, what if they had abducted someone, that she realised though everything was in place, nothing seemed to have been touched, her heir loom gifted to her grandfather, and by none than the British themselves, had simply disappeared.  

It was a night of celebration of her father. It was a night when all the villagers had come to pay respect to the bravery, the wit and the charm of the singular man who saved this village from oblivion. All the village all it's men or women dignified or not had choose that night to spend under a singular tent drinking with each other, talking to each other, to celebrate the dignity, the legacy of life there despite droughts, despite floods, despite the conditions often deplorable they had faced, for whatever the cost, they had faced together. The night began quiet enough, few men or women, often wealthy who had managed to come by, while alcohol--free as it was supposed to be was not yet available--discussed in there secluded, darkened corners about prices of grains that had yet to dip enough, and gradually began to populate first by those occasional drunk, wandering simply because he knew not where else it would be bright and warm, then by farmer girls looking for there fathers, daughters fleeing there husbands sons fleeing there mother, few farmers who had there day cut in half, others who had simply decided--for that night--to ditch there work. Soon enough it was something like a scene, speakers had been brought from the city and where plugged and going, a laptop that connected it all and several CDs in a stack, several stacks stored up, the confirmation that Alcohol, indeed, was about to be served. 

It was difficult to say, then, when exactly was the heirloom of the household taken away. The night once loud never quite quietened, the general flood of people surfing along the border of the household, few guards hired with guns make to enforce it and alcohol, everywhere alcohol and somewhere in between that, in between when late in evening and late in the next morning, someone had managed to sneak in and take with them the diamond that had for so long belonged in there family. 

The story broke the next day to the wider crowd, murmurs that came on loudspeakers and rumours that became the truth, that the women who had hosted a celebratory funeral to her father, that women who had inherited his wealth and not his son, who had served despite the scandal Alcohol, had a house break in, had on herself a diamond stolen from. Before eleven a crowd had gathered around her house, not to watch anything in particular, not expecting any attention--anyone coming out and clarifying the details--but simply to watch in anticipation however ill placed that something interesting, however unlikely, just might happen. It was an open site, another funeral to talk the manners of the fresh corpse, a cheery sight all together, a place for strangers to chat up regarding there mutual disdain for this other, but inside everything that was up was already down. 

An array of upside utensils laid to waste from the kitchen of the house, the meal cooked and thrown upon the floor, to where Maa Kumbh, the women, alone across several rooms and beginning to sob. But by then it was already too late, the man the thief had ran away, though she had filed the complaint he would never be found, though she had already plastered his face--our what was caught among the cameras--his body would never be recovered, and it had began to hit her by that morning that though this diamond was invaluable, that though it valued more than many a lives around her, it would never again belong to her, belong again to this family.  

Perhaps it was a scream then that woke her up, or perhaps she was awake after all, listening with silent heartbeats the clutching, the slithering of her mother's Payal. Perhaps she woke when she heard them crawling across those far away rooms, a sound so subtle, in the noise of the night--in between hooting of the owls and whispering of the trees--almost inaudible, that she already felt a premonition, felt somethings to be far too silent, somethings to be far too loud for her comfort, but when she first heard her scream, like someone was taking a life from her throat, like her insides were twisting to turn them inside out, she needn't be awakened from anything at all. By then strangely, she knew everything. 

It took them a while, the staff still asleep, but in just few seconds the doors and the windows of every other room did flew as well, several legs that rushed several footsteps running all rushing over--but always, always and despite everything, appropriately silent--and then a lull, a muffled slog in her wailing. 

Slowly then did her own body creep as well. She wore nothing else around her ankles, had nothing to ring as she crept across the floor, then through the stairs across then over the beginning of that corridor on whose other end--the gate left open, the lights, in this deep a night already blinding--she heard the indigent sulking, the whispering of consoling, deeper voices, her mother and few else, few other men she knew some of them, discussing this strange conundrum. 

She couldn't make much of what they spoke. It was her mother crying, then they asking, pleading beginning and then demanding her to stop, convincing her by the grace of the god who is just and on her side this thief will be caught, her remaining silent for few more minutes, where then they discussed who it could have been--and here was what she was unable to make--when could he have slipped in, how could have he just disappeared like that, discussing some theories, naming some names, these local names so foreign to her ears, too winded in there complexity, too arcane in there meaning, then her mother beginning to sulk again. Then that gate spilling lights out threw open, a man, late thirties with a rough moustache, else completely dark against the light watching her startled, staring back, stark in front of him. Her life could have ended there. 

Mother asked for this man, a name definitely foreign, to come back for what was holding him there, slowly he then obeying that order, pulling the door slowly, leaving it there exactly there, exactly where it was before. They continued, but she was not listening anymore. She had fallen across the floor, the ends of her arms where touching the cold gravel but only then she realised this, slowly rose again--less she rushed and foiled this chance, she thought, she had been given--begin to go back to her room, to close the door to make sure it is closed, to go and fall back to sleep, but she couldn't. She was staring at the floor now, some meters away was the turn that she could take, that she should take, but as if the breath would leave her behind if she followed through, no, indeed, she turned back. She knocked again. 

That buzz of sound that indicated life, pleasant, vanished at her knocks, her second and third knock as if in a vacuum. No questions were asked, merely, a moment later, a sound of a body--a man, older, him--walking back at her, slow foot steps each heavy as if leaving a mark, a breathing some seconds later, a hand on the other side holding it still, breathing deliberately, slapping it open with a rage. It was him, all complete of him some six foot or more, then behind her mother--too bothered by somethings else to look back at her--the two maids beside and around them some dozens of jewellery boxes, blood red like open mouths jewellery boxes and the jewels inside, the pearls the earrings, the necklaces thrown around them, one hand of her mother over her mouth--as if holding her insides--the other warmed in between palms of one of the maids. The man didn't asked her in, didn't demanded her out nor threatened to shut the door, didn't moved to offer a better view, only stared back as if without blinking; the shadow of his body, the light behind it, drowning everything around her in his shadows. 

"what happened to my mother" she said for what else what she to speak, what else she thought was valid. 

He didn't replied, not immediately and it was as if he knelt a little further, examining a little closer this body who suddenly spoke these words, so she repeated herself

"what happened to my mother, why is she crying"

"there was a robbery" his voice like puncturing the ears, high enough deep enough to burn a hole through it, but she understood him. There was a robbery, she understood in two tree seconds, there was a robbery, she understood exactly--that something so precious that she had never seen, something so precious it had never felt fresh air, had caused her mother to untie like this--there was a robbery, something so essential, was just stolen, robbed, uprooted away from them, there was a robbery, that thing, was just stolen. "Maa", she could only cry back. 

She, the mother, demanded her in after seeing her standing pathetic like this, or perhaps after hearing her whisper like this. The guard, the man, moved away, the light still blinding revealed behind itself, beyond what she had seen the wardrobe--the golden beaded wardrobe she felt could never be opened, that she had never seen be opened, exposed like this. Her mother merely motioned with her free hand towards where there was a free seat, a little space in between the maids who immediately moved as much away as they could. She took few steps in, the man stepping aside yet his presence had carved the air itself and she waited few more moments, wondering, looking around at amazement at a room so familiar so unfamiliar arranged, room that was always supposed to be impeccable, that over which he her father had fired maids and guards over, so irrelevantly so inconsiderately altered. But she took that little place nonetheless, just one of her many maids but looking up at her--a privilege not easily given--as her mother sighed, sighed again, before taking her hand in between those palms, placing it slowly over her head. 

She caressed that head, slowly moved her fingers again and again through her hair with her eyes looking, yet not, at herself, at something that was through her. 

"you should have not seen me like this" she said "I am very sorry"

"no mother, no it is fine" for what else was she to say "It is fine, I understand"

"it happened yesterday" she replied to a question not yet asked "he stole from us, one of those boys"

"who"

"one of those villagers, those who come each year even if told not to"

"I don't know who are you talking about"

"oh you..." she looked again at her "you were away, this begin to happen some years ago you didn't saw them, they would come whether we want to or not I know these kinds of people"

She couldn't reply at all, what she were to say about these people, whom she had never seen 

"I know he was from there, I know because I saw several at once slipping late at night but I didn't said anything because as a host I should not, I saw them slipping alcohol, bringing there own unbranded ones, sharing it with others who couldn't tell a goat from a sheep"

"Maa Kumbh" said that man, the many maids suddenly all looking up "we would find him, we would find the diamond he cannot have run very far" but he could have, in about six hours he could have fled so far away--he looking at her tense, she breaking that gaze, looking away "there could have only been so many of us who did not remembered who he was, we have not interrogated all, we will interrogate all the village and we will find him I can in name of my mother swear I would find him for you"

Maa Kumbh was not very impressed. 