# Act I



Afterwords, It was said that her death lingered, like lullaby of some past lives it stayed on. It was said she might as well have been right, a life like that, was it even worth living, it was said that her father had, after all, knew what she knew, knew about it all and was after all proud. It was said on morning of this January a little girl of some seven jumped into this wide iced like river, made it solid choppy red for few harrowing hours, it was said revenge for this girl had already been done, that the family responsible had already lynched. It was said that the family was not lynched at all, that they had escaped through the last of the late night trains, that though the village chased after with they couldn't keep up. It was said she still sung late in night for anyone considerate, all they had to do was to come, and listen. It was said on a villa that faced that river, on whose banks it was built by hands later cut off, there was a diamond left still after independence, and which had late that night disappeared. 

The diamond had disappeared under this mistress. She was sleeping when it was gone, she was celebrating beforehand. The diamond had disappeared when it were jubilation, when men fought then laughed it off and girls were flirting with each other, when boys drank late till late in night and women forgot to look after them. It had disappeared when the family of Kumbh decided upon a little celebration to bid off Holi, a night to let everything spill so tomorrow morning could bring new beginnings. It was stolen because, after the death of the Patriarch, his mistress inherited everything, began to spread rumours about it. The diamond that had belonged for so long in the line of that family, that had not seen any hands not of there kin, had been desecrated in front of that crowd, of the villagers and there rumours. That which had not seen light for centuries, was paraded in open view. The diamond was stolen because precisely that was the justice, and precisely this--her rumoured suicide, her blood just behind this curtained screen--was the retribution. In the rain of the next morning, when everything in colour was washed away, the town was gathering to gawk and coo like crows in between the roads that lead in and out all crowded with men and women, the gates that was suppose to guard the mansion left open, the guards-- afraid for there life--already fleeing. So, what could have been a better sight for her that this, when she was visiting after so long her only family. 

The bus pulled left from those overgrown yards of those houses whose trees had a habit like drunk men to linger there branches too close for comfort, putting there leaves sliding across through the slits of the bus windows over there lips, there faces, stumbled across those roads with pot marks marked with mud and praying all the while it was not your luggage that slipped from the rest and fell while you were nodding. It arrived some hours after it began from that nearby city, named something K or L and little when compared to rest of there state, how it had began developing but already was so different than everything, how it appeared everyone there was late or drunk and nights would last till it was day and the day won't began till it was already afternoon, when she would still be seeing men outside there little balconies half awake and brushing. How it felt the earth itself sliding down as she slid back to this village, this little province so naked in it's boundaries, which used to be her world. Slowly, upon the end of the bus stop the bus began to stop, a simple end to it's engine and letting the rest be taken care such that the momentum vanished mere meters away. The crowd, immediately, began to jump ahead. 

There was not much in reality that she had to rush forward, to join this herd as it struggled--sweat in this winter--to fall off from this rusted bus before everyone. Few glanced behind at her but she was firmly lost somewhere in front of her bus window, ears plugged in, and somewhat about few minutes, half an hour later, it was empty. The driver had gone as well, the conductor had left the door open. Clearly there was not much to steal here, or not much threat for it to be stolen. 

It was strange then to look behind--already walked few meters ahead--and seeing that thing, that final piece that was common in between her and where she embarked, where she had finally ended, slowly disappear as well, to dissolve with it's rusted green paint around the rusted greenery, to vanish few moments as if it was never there. But there was not much consolation to had, for where she had expected otherwise a calm welcome, to see at best her mother open armed and teary and telling each of her maids to prepare several sweets or otherwise, at worst, to not see anyone at all, to enter with the key given that she had since her childhood, that she was cradling more precious than life in between her palms, there were instead a crowd, there appeared, through the heat alone, a riot. 

The road ended and on left was what she was to take, then further a right, and then her house was suppose to be 
