# Notes

UOSIC_AL: "Upon Our Soiled Indic Roots, A Lotus"

The story is set upon a village in South India, where a girl has killed herself over the running river, her family in name of vengeance had been lynched, and the funeral of the patriarch of the Kurumatra family has just begin.

The Kurumatra family is a well loved family in the village. They are known to be generous, to give large and large amounts of money and yet remain quiet wealthy, grow there wealth year by year where specifically in the last few years there wealth had quadrupled, while the rest of the village went through a devastating famine.

The wife of head patriarch, Maa Kumbh as she preferred to be called, the mother of our recently graduated main character, has planned a magnificent feast for all the village to celebrate, and has invited her as much as a helping hand as she could be.

Everyday things begins to get stolen, however. Little things at first, here and there and off the sight so that days would pass before anyone would notice like a step in a stair it's absence. Causing severe damages to the planning of the funeral.

The story would end with a looting, a burning of the house.

It would begin with a thought that a little girl had jumped to the flowing river, and that one of the family looms the family had had disappeared, stolen. 

The tension of this novel would first begin with the intrigue of this place, these people and the prospect of such a brazen thievery done in public. The first act would end on the last night before the funeral, where the news would spread that the father had not died of natural causes but was rather killed, and it seemed by the hands of the government. 

The second act would begin with the funeral feast that once promised had to be delivered  
