# Act I



Afterwords, It was said that her death lingered, like lullaby of some past lives it stayed on. It was said she might as well have been right, a life like that, was it even worth living, it was said that her father had, after all, knew what she knew, knew about it all and was after all proud. It was said on morning of this January a little girl of some seven jumped into this wide iced like river, made it solid choppy red for few harrowing hours, it was said revenge for this girl had already been done, that the family responsible had already lynched. It was said that the family was not lynched at all, that they had escaped through the last of the late night trains, that though the village chased after with they couldn't keep up. It was said she still sung late in night for anyone considerate, all they had to do was to come, and listen. It was said on a villa that faced that river, on whose banks it was built by hands later cut off, there was a diamond left still after independence, and which had late that night disappeared. 

The diamond had disappeared under this mistress. She was sleeping when it was gone, she was celebrating beforehand. The diamond had disappeared when it were jubilation, when men fought then laughed it off and girls were flirting with each other, when boys drank late till late in night and women forgot to look after them. It had disappeared when the family of Kumbh decided upon a little celebration to bid off Holi, a night to let everything spill so tomorrow morning could bring new beginnings. It was stolen because, after the death of the Patriarch, his mistress inherited everything, began to spread rumours about it. The diamond that had belonged for so long in the line of that family, that had not seen any hands not of there kin, had been desecrated in front of that crowd, of the villagers and there rumours. That which had not seen light for centuries, was paraded in open view. The diamond was stolen because precisely that was the justice, and precisely this--her rumoured suicide, her blood just behind this curtained screen--was the retribution. In the rain of the next morning, when everything in colour was washed away, the town was gathering to gawk and coo like crows in between the roads that lead in and out all crowded with men and women, the gates that was suppose to guard the mansion left open, the guards-- afraid for there life--already fleeing. So, what could have been a better sight for her that this, when she was visiting after so long her only family. 

The bus lurched forward best that it could across the unpaved road, through the lush overgrown gardens--there hands of there trees like lecherous old men groping across her windows--into what the rusted metal plank, too large for it's good and with intricate colouring, all faded, left at the turn of that road, before which was the city she was in, after which was where this village was suppose to begin, specified in writing that, save for letters familiar here and there already forgotten, and apparent in it's supposed, now forgotten and forgiven, grandiosity, the beginning of the perimeters of that village. An oval from the mountains, a lake somewhere in middle and in between those mountains thin white lines like one of these roads one took to enter or to exit. This sign that rushed forward as there bus rushed in disregard of the steep turn upcoming, turned urgently upon a side and disappeared behind as a grey blue dot, as another dash of an mistaken brush or paint, the bus lurching downwards it's engine now off, till I began to see somewhere in the faint cloudy distance few houses with grey concrete roofs over them. Slowly the bus rolled down, halfway through started it's engine again--another jerk to there roofs, some more luggage stumbling down--the houses more numerous, brighter in colour, there gates left open, there chicken yards, there market, all empty. 

However still the bus remained travelling in between those houses, those empty yards and markets through the mud road that ran in between them, took the left turns, took the right ones, and devoid as everything was of any life--even the passengers a little concerned, how they began to chat among themselves--it kept on lurching forward till where it was suppose to end, where there was suppose to be a bus stop with already more than enough people waiting on it, but kept finding all that while, all in between these overgrown plants, these overbearing trees, life devoid of anyone littering it. All except of course those on bus with her, wondering just like her but less quiet, less in panic, till somewhere in distance like a hoot shot from a past life, she began to hear alongside everyone else--there sudden, consume silence--the noise of a riot. The bus nonetheless ran just like it was running before, walking towards where it came from the driver oblivious, uninterested in such matters, or unable to hear it at all. The noise grew louder and so did the discomfort, how they began to shrink, how the mothers began to shield there children how those children began to cry, how fathers began to look here and there, readjust in there seats--how suddenly the lady beside her, old, quiet, began to sob silently, only a mere handkerchief against her shrunken cheek--the bus refusing to hear it's own cries as it lurched forward till, somewhere in the distance again there was the stand, before it a crowd, several thousand men and boys striving to jump so they may look ahead as well and rather than angry, rather than agitated, curious instead. 

They scattered well enough when they heard the honks of the bus, went beside it or behind but kept gazing forward--now a bus as another obstacle between them--but there still remained men and boys, now more committed, willing to remain over the roads meant of new cars and buses and now all of sudden quiet indifferent to the honks now matter how loud, how insistent, as her bus suddenly came to a halting crawl. A crawl over almost the bodies of these boys but heaven forbid if it dissuaded them, they barely even noticed and kept trying almost to crawl over each other to be the first to rob to steal to kill someone to take revenge for there father she didn't knew what, only that it was necessary as soon as possible for them to be first to rip apart the rest like the crowd melting with each other, melting into each other and there bus now somewhere in between, honking twice, thrice, marching a little forward only to be stopped again, someone behind throwing  sticks or rocks and breaking glasses until suddenly--she did not knew how, did not wanted to consider--they began to give away, look with intensity as that bus slowly began to make there way, demand with there gaze an answer to question she never wanted to knew. Someone had spread the rumour, somewhere they knew they suddenly knew who on the second last seat, facing the left most window and gazing down was, was asking with each look back this confirmation but she couldn't, could not in that heat gaze them back, much as she imagined she could not look them in there eyes. Her house was now merely meters away, perhaps she could have even seen it but didn't dared, waited for the slog of that speed the bus took to take them back, wishing with each seconds in passing somewhere in the distance these masses would vanish. Perhaps it did, perhaps it didn't only that, moments later,  
