# Act I



Afterwords, It was said that her death lingered, like lullaby of some past lives it stayed on. It was said she might as well have been right, a life like that, was it even worth living, it was said that her father had, after all, knew what she knew, knew about it all and was after all proud. It was said on morning of this January a little girl of some seven jumped into this wide iced like river, made it solid choppy red for few harrowing hours, it was said revenge for this girl had already been done, that the family responsible had already lynched. It was said that the family was not lynched at all, that they had escaped through the last of the late night trains, that though the village chased after with they couldn't keep up. It was said she still sung late in night for anyone considerate, all they had to do was to come, and listen. It was said on a villa that faced that river, on whose banks it was built by hands later cut off, there was a diamond left still after independence, and which had late that night disappeared. 

The diamond had disappeared under this mistress. She was sleeping when it was gone, she was celebrating beforehand. The diamond had disappeared when it were jubilation, when men fought then laughed it off and girls were flirting with each other, when boys drank late till late in night and women forgot to look after them. It had disappeared when the family of Kumbh decided upon a little celebration to bid off Holi, a night to let everything spill so tomorrow morning could bring new beginnings. It was stolen because, after the death of the Patriarch, his mistress inherited everything, began to spread rumours about it. The diamond that had belonged for so long in the line of that family, that had not seen any hands not of there kin, had been desecrated in front of that crowd, of the villagers and there rumours. That which had not seen light for centuries, was paraded in open view. The diamond was stolen because precisely that was the justice, and precisely this--her rumoured suicide, her blood just behind this curtained screen--was the retribution. In the rain of the next morning, when everything in colour was washed away, the town was gathering to gawk and coo like crows in between the roads that lead in and out all crowded with men and women, the gates that was suppose to guard the mansion left open, the guards-- afraid for there life--already fleeing. So, what could have been a better sight for her that this, when she was visiting after so long her only family. 

The bus pulled left from those overgrown yards of those houses whose trees had a habit like drunk men to linger there branches too close for comfort, putting there leaves sliding across through the slits of the bus windows over there lips, there faces, stumbled across those roads with pot marks marked with mud and praying all the while it was not your luggage that slipped from the rest and fell while you were nodding. 
