# Act I



Afterwords, It was said that her death lingered, like lullaby of some past lives it stayed on. It was said she might as well have been right, a life like that, was it even worth living, it was said that her father had, after all, knew what she knew, knew about it all and was after all proud. It was said on morning of this January a little girl of some seven jumped into this wide iced like river, made it solid choppy red for few harrowing hours, it was said revenge for this girl had already been done, that the family responsible had already lynched. It was said that the family was not lynched at all, that they had escaped through the last of the late night trains, that though the village chased after with they couldn't keep up. It was said she still sung late in night for anyone considerate, all they had to do was to come, and listen. It was said on a villa that faced that river, on whose banks it was built by hands later cut off, there was a diamond left still independence, and which had had disappeared. 

Each night like some glacier of gold the villa would glitter upon shores of the running river, it's water never too far away from the many dangling legs of each room rented or simply given to, depending upon the day, someone wealthy, a friend, or merely someone of some considerable importance. A shrine for the rest of the village, a museum for those a bit daring--those who would try to sneak through in before one of the guards employed would catch and then like dogs shoo them away--until they were eventually be bribed and replaced, and for her a house, a bit bigger than usual, in which she had spend so much of her memorable childhood days. Just a few days ago she was invited, to her father's funeral, for he had suddenly died and her mother was devastated, and just a few days ago she had arrived. And here she was, late in night in one of those rooms--further away from the shore, less those lecherous eyes forever roaming on a boat or two caught her compromised--tumbling in her sleep with few of her stray blankets, some upon her bed, some fallen to the shore.

