# Act I



Afterwords, It was said that her death lingered, like lullaby of some past lives it stayed on. It was said she might as well have been right, a life like that, was it even worth living, it was said that her father had, after all, knew what she knew, knew about it all and was after all proud. It was said on morning of this January a little girl of some seven jumped into this wide iced like river, made it solid choppy red for few harrowing hours, it was said revenge for this girl had already been done, that the family responsible had already lynched. It was said that the family was not lynched at all, that they had escaped through the last of the late night trains, that though the village chased after with they couldn't keep up. It was said she still sung late in night for anyone considerate, all they had to do was to come, and listen. It was said on a villa that faced that river, on whose banks it was built by hands later cut off, there was a diamond left still after independence, and which had late that night disappeared. 

The diamond had disappeared under this mistress. She was sleeping when it was gone, she was celebrating beforehand. The diamond had disappeared when it were jubilation, when men fought then laughed it off and girls were flirting with each other, when boys drank late till late in night and women forgot to look after them. It had disappeared when the family of Kumbh decided upon a little celebration to bid off Holi, a night to let everything spill so tomorrow morning could bring new beginnings. It was stolen because, after the death of the Patriarch, his mistress inherited everything, began to spread rumours about it. The diamond that had belonged for so long in the line of that family, that had not seen any hands not of there kin, had been desecrated in front of that crowd, of the villagers and there rumours. That which had not seen light for centuries, was paraded in open view. The diamond was stolen because precisely that was the justice, and precisely this--her rumoured suicide, her blood just behind this curtained screen--was the retribution. In the rain of the next morning, when everything in colour was washed away, the town was gathering to gawk and coo like crows in between the roads that lead in and out all crowded with men and women, the gates that was suppose to guard the mansion left open, the guards-- afraid for there life--already fleeing. So, what could have been a better sight for her that this, when she was visiting after so long her only family. 

The bus pulled left from those overgrown yards of those houses whose trees had a habit like drunk men to linger there branches too close for comfort, putting there leaves sliding across through the slits of the bus windows over there lips, there faces, stumbled across those roads with pot marks marked with mud and praying all the while it was not your luggage that slipped from the rest and fell while you were nodding. It arrived some hours after it began from that nearby city, named something K or L and little when compared to rest of there state, how it had began developing but already was so different than everything, how it appeared everyone there was late or drunk and nights would last till it was day and the day won't began till it was already afternoon, when she would still be seeing men outside there little balconies half awake and brushing. How it felt the earth itself sliding down as she slid back to this village, this little province so naked in it's boundaries, which used to be her world. Slowly, upon the end of the bus stop the bus began to stop, a simple end to it's engine and letting the rest be taken care such that the momentum vanished mere meters away. The crowd, immediately, began to jump ahead. 

There was not much in reality that she had to rush forward, to join this herd as it struggled--sweat in this winter--to fall off from this rusted bus before everyone. Few glanced behind at her but she was firmly lost somewhere in front of her bus window, ears plugged in, and somewhat about few minutes, half an hour later, it was empty. The driver had gone as well, the conductor had left the door open. Clearly there was not much to steal here, or not much threat for it to be stolen. 

It was strange then to look behind--already walked few meters ahead--and seeing that thing, that final piece that was common in between her and where she embarked, where she had finally ended, slowly disappear as well, to dissolve with it's rusted green paint around the rusted greenery, to vanish few moments as if it was never there. But there was not much consolation to had, for where she had expected otherwise a calm welcome, to see at best her mother open armed and teary and telling each of her maids to prepare several sweets or otherwise, at worst, to not see anyone at all, to enter with the key given that she had since her childhood, that she was cradling more precious than life in between her palms, there were instead a crowd, there appeared, through the heat alone, a riot. 

The road ended and on left was what she was to take, then further a right, and then her house was suppose to be, but already the road was blocked, at it's edge two boys--fourteen, fifteen--a rolled up cigarette or two in between there palms. They appeared to not have noticed her, even this closed they appeared, no they were high, the absent floating look in there eyes it became obvious they were on something and how they edged, they floated as if never quiet sure where there left or right leg had landed, she was glad they hadn't noticed her. But she had to move, at some point she would need to pass through that pass unless--she moved across a little to notice the land in between, where there used to be some kind of statue she remembered, some devotional deity made out of all tarred, black stones--there was now an empty path, an uneven land with her old high heels but she would manage, she decided to hike her dress a little, her knees, if there were to be a breeze, showing, decided to jump that uneven gap between that road, and mud of the field. 

Right then the boys moved to look back a little, a little glance towards her and she freezing, death, certain humiliation but no, yes they roamed there eyes at her, in and around her but then slowly, bored, moved it back, then giggling, there slurred laughs, in it's discomfort, strangely comforting. Back to the path then slowly, damping her feet over where the leaves had fallen and slowly roaming till she felt outside there eyesight, outside where they would bother to wonder which was what and where, and there already was her house, already around it--packed like it was a party--men and women buzzing like far away bees while all the doors and all the windows were closed, all the curtains that she could see, drawn. They were far but not far away to see her, to not notice in between barren fields a figure and--suddenly she realised--a figure of a lone women no less dressed the way she was dressed, dressed like unlike all of them, like one of those which they had surrounded to kill to maim, to seek justice for the ills they had committed she didn't knew, she didn't wanted to know not then, not right there at least. 

Suddenly there was a cheer, but not at her no suddenly a cheer and then slowly, one of those first floor windows too wide for it's good that used to open like it was overseeing a private garden shuffled a little, the curtains flickered a little--as if someone was tugging--and all the men and boys began to cheer louder for something she couldn't quiet make, some stones were thrown even some slippers, one shoe of someone but then it died, paused as sharply as it had played, and there on the corner, from an angle only she could see, the curtains skirting at the edge to reveal a blaze, mirror, a faint flash of light then it pausing, that flash again, pausing again, a Morse code, a SOS. From behind the window, through one of those unassuming bushes, some movement, a slight almost inaudible churn of doors--how she was able to hear it she did not knew--of a gate she was certain, it slightly opening. 



