# Act I



Afterwords, It was said that her death lingered, like lullaby of some past lives it stayed on. It was said she might as well have been right, a life like that, was it even worth living, it was said that her father had, after all, knew what she knew, knew about it all and was after all proud. It was said on morning of this January a little girl of some seven jumped into this wide iced like river, made it solid choppy red for few harrowing hours, it was said revenge for this girl had already been done, that the family responsible had already lynched. It was said that the family was not lynched at all, that they had escaped through the last of the late night trains, that though the village chased after with they couldn't keep up. It was said she still sung late in night for anyone considerate, all they had to do was to come, and listen. It was said on a villa that faced that river, on whose banks it was built by hands later cut off, there was a diamond left still independence, and which had had disappeared. 

It was stolen on late at night, some hours, more hours before three or four next morning. It was stolen from the main room, the trail of open doors left but without hands of feet touching it, and it was only that small family room, blood red diamond, that was missing. Late in night horns blew over the village to warn anyone who might wake of these potential thieves among them, how they looked, how they, seemingly, might have dressed, what to do if they happen to catch them among themselves. That it was a man small and two men larger than him, in dresses first all white then red blue and green, that they were considerably darker skinned and potentially spoke Hindi, or spoke Telegu but with an sharp, stark accent, that if they saw them or if they even thought they had seen someone like them, they had to tell there lord--Maa Khumb--about it. House by house the story went, men after men after men falling down upon there stairs knocking upon there closed doors, leaning in just to check while one spoke, and leaving with bright red printed pamphlets, and further, if the men felt like it, reminding them that refusing to report would be considered lacking in compliance, lack in compliance would be considered treachery, and these little treacheries like treacheries of every other kind, would be harshly punished. 
