# Act I



Afterwords, It was said that her death lingered, like lullaby of some past lives it stayed on. It was said she might as well have been right, a life like that, was it even worth living, it was said that her father had, after all, knew what she knew, knew about it all and was after all proud. It was said on morning of this January a little girl of some seven jumped into this wide iced like river, made it solid choppy red for few harrowing hours, it was said revenge for this girl had already been done, that the family responsible had already lynched. It was said that the family was not lynched at all, that they had escaped through the last of the late night trains, that though the village chased after with they couldn't keep up. It was said she still sung late in night for anyone considerate, all they had to do was to come, and listen. It was said on a villa that faced that river, on whose banks it was built by hands later cut off, there was a diamond left still after independence, and which had late that night disappeared. 

The news of the steal spread fast upon the crack of the next day. It became the first thing to be talked about, the teachers gossiping as they walked to there schools, the pupils behind running as they whispered, the labourers or the blacksmiths sitting upon the sides wondering if some money could be made, or the women left behind in there houses, wondering about her irresponsibility, how they might have never let it happen. It was a boy of mere seventeen or something, from a different village who had came last night--who wore a red cloth or who wore all black--all alone or with few friends as he or they slipped with everyone else during the celebration, disappeared despite the security, and how it was only just now, this late in morning, when she noticed the gate of several of her rooms had been left open, that when she began to scream at those maids for what could have happened, what if they had stolen something, what if they had abducted someone, that she realised though everything was in place, nothing seemed to have been touched, her heir loom gifted to her grandfather, and by none than the British themselves, had simply disappeared.  

It was a night of celebration of her father. It was a night when all the villagers had come to pay respect to the bravery, the wit and the charm of the singular man who saved this village from oblivion. Peo