# Act I



Afterwords, It was said that her death lingered, like lullaby of some past lives it stayed on. It was said she might as well have been right, a life like that, was it even worth living, it was said that her father had, after all, knew what she knew, knew about it all and was after all proud. It was said on morning of this January a little girl of some seven jumped into this wide iced like river, made it solid choppy red for few harrowing hours, it was said revenge for this girl had already been done, that the family responsible had already lynched. It was said that the family was not lynched at all, that they had escaped through the last of the late night trains, that though the village chased after with they couldn't keep up. It was said she still sung late in night for anyone considerate, all they had to do was to come, and listen. It was said on a villa that faced that river, on whose banks it was built by hands later cut off, there was a diamond left still independence, and which had had disappeared. 

It was stolen on late at night, some hours, more hours before three or four next morning. It was stolen from the main room, the trail of open doors left but without hands of feet touching it, and it was only that small family room, blood red diamond, that was missing. Late in night horns blew over the village to warn anyone who might wake of these potential thieves among them, how they looked, how they, seemingly, might have dressed, what to do if they happen to catch them among themselves. That it was a man small and two men larger than him, in dresses first all white then red blue and green, that they were considerably darker skinned and potentially spoke Hindi, or spoke Telegu but with an sharp, stark accent, that if they saw them or if they even thought they had seen someone like them, they had to tell there lord--Maa Khumb--about it. House by house the story went, men after men after men falling down upon there stairs knocking upon there closed doors, leaning in just to check while one spoke, and leaving with bright red printed pamphlets, and further, if the men felt like it, reminding them that refusing to report would be considered a lack in compliance, lack in compliance would be considered treachery, and these little treacheries like treacheries of every other kind, they would make sure to harshly punish. Now the sun had risen, and sitting alone in the balcony, a newspaper in English and a newspaper in Telegu bought and unfolded, the diamonds were gone, the thieves had ran, it was finally clear she would never find them again.  

It was a ruckus then some hours later when the train finally arrived and there already was a crowd gathered, buzzing, before her house. It appeared in motion, group of men and women merely gawking, whispering words before walking away, a mere sight of curiosity whose deeper meaning long as she stayed, long as she felt she needed to stay before she can claim back her right to enter again, she could not tell. And though there was a coolie she had shewed him back, though there was a riskshaw she ignored him as well, but an event less entrance standing there minute after minute after minute she realised, she simply would not get. 

It was difficult to paint how the villa changed as she pulled it back. The colours off the wall surrounding melted into something else, the shade from the light and the light itself criss-crossed the broken gravel ridden paths into multiple pieces, the buzz of the passing crowd, it's heat it's voice, warmed the very colour of the door from certain, charcoal black, a piece cut off from earth itself, to something that could be pried open, but, as if, the wind was taken away, those chatter stopped, those eyes of those crowd floating free moments before, froze in the air, but among this she walked past nonetheless, felt some comfort in the colours of those walls cool back to coldness, a knock at the door, some maid asking who was it again, and her only saying her name, saying she had finally returned. 

This was a long pause for her, or either she had forgotten how long these pauses usually lasted. The silence behind began to rise again though she was already far ahead, and as the door closed there mouth closed as well. Inside the walls were ice blue, cool to touch. Painted years ago they still held there shape, the thick of the paint still odd over the walls--exactly as she wanted--the sofa still as immaculately kept as it were in memories. So little changing in fact it was as if she had sunken again in one of her dreams, yet strangely now looking aware of it. Finding in odd corners things they had changed against her will. And as she sunk onto that sofa, the spring eating her up till she was halfway upside down, there it was, on the wall where it met the cealing, in bright orange and red, a face painted with stern lines only, her father. Looking down, the sun behind becoming one with several lines into the clouds. Birds began to sing just then, the doors--several at once--opened, the day in the villa she now remembered, just as in her youth, finally began. 

Two plates of ladoos were presented to her though she had stopped eating them. A blood red glass of Rooafhja alongside, some mixtures, each over translucent plates on a translucent table--the plain sharp woods holding with sensible care. She said her mother would come in just a minute, that while she prepared herself why not engage with what was in front of her. She said she was very glad she had come, then the maid disappeared into the kitchen. Soon enough the morning choir of several chores that needed to be done, died as well, a quiet came, the walls began to feel home like again. 

In a room several walls away there was a women admiring the black charcoal like mascara running from her hair down to her cheek, a little smeared accidentally. In a room several walls away around that women appeared two other maids, heads down, hands working, sewing with meticulous care a torn in her saree that occurred when she heard while she was reading the sound of her daughter, gasping in awe or fear, and simply ran for it, and now was running the same lipstick over her swollen lips less as told the needle ran a little deep and blood was wrung out again. In one hand there it was a painting of that priceless loom, the artefact the British in there infinite magnitude had given to her, in another the clippings collected of who he might be who entered that one night and ran away with it, his face, the lashes in his hair as described by all who said they might have seen him. But it stung nonetheless, a needle, simple as that grazed her skin, the blood ran the line upon her skin, it already began to flake away. The maid rose forward, bowed her head down as the slap, delayed, came her away, stinging her rosebud skin. She fell on the floor but quickly rose again, began where she had left. There were in total three tears, two at the edges and one large running somewhere in between, and it was only that middle one that was taking this much effort, where they quivered before they had to come near her, flinched whenever she turned to get a better look. But it was done, the last needle went in and out and it was as if the red thread had melted with rest, and she looking magnificent in it. 

How similar it truly was then, this homecoming to a dream. It were not mere walls or the furniture but every sight and every sound, every little details as if plucked from her past and placed, yes meticulously, carefully, but fundamentally with the taste of someone else, and here it was her mother coming--the sound of her pawal and she free associating several nights, several nights she had wasted upon the rooftop, under the night sky where stars looked like they had wires running in between them, several nights running under this very hall with servants always running behind them, she scolding them away, they begging to stay near, it all just right then coming together in a single moment--her mother asking how long it truly had been since she had seen this face, her beautiful face. 

"two years, two and a half I guess"

"when did I send you there, which year"

"I don't remember"

"must have been a cold one"

"I went away in Summer, I remember that"

"oh, yes I remember that as well, it was a hot summer here" but mother's face showed a slight darkness she shut away "you were very young back then oh my love, oh love how have" she began to drawl her voice "how have you grown my love" and began to step forward arms reached head bowed, only the edges of there shoulders touching each other "how, when how did you grew so much"

"the sun, the students I guess"

"the boys" 

"oh no, no Mammy" she corrected "no maa, no boys I would never"

"I am glad, you know your father would have been so happy to see you, just look at him" she pointed up at the painting "costs us ten lakhs"

"that's a lot of money"

"nothing of value comes cheap my love"

"how much"

"oh you know, it was" giggling "it was certainly expensive"

She looked back at the painting, how it had red sharp lines extending past the frames and onto the wall and the doubt, though vague, that she hadn't before then noticed it, in point of fact that it was right then, right in front of her, that she was for the first time noticing it, and she thought of bringing it up, almost, but stopped, said 

"I think Dad would be proud of this painting"

"oh no--" she puffed some air out "--he would not, he would complain this and complain that"

"but he would really like it, I know that"

She looked again at those lines that merged to make her father's moustache, black lines over white silhouette and red thrown here and there, around his eyes, looking in some far away distance with it appeared both anticipation and dread. 

"who painted this" but her mother was a room away, her payal upon nearby drawers from which, she could tell, she was pulling some new jewellery that she would put around her daughter's neck, take a step back, admire like a beautiful object, like a beautiful brown buck caught in accident. 

"I always knew this would work well" she put a hand upon it, it's intricate design, it's many references to ancient epics--the battles fought and won, the speeches--all lost on her "look at you, almost a bride"

She giggled at this, slowly pulled it from around her neck and back to it's red, magnetic case, pushed it at her mother who gladly took it back to same drawer, coming back with another set--larger, bolder with a brand--though she cannot imagine to bear anything upon her neck again

"maa, maa it's fine, I know"

"what"

"I will try them on put needed, but not right now" 

Her mother looked back with the case close to her chest, her hand upon the lid, slowly walked back.

"anyways, there is a crowd outside, have we donated for Diwali yet"

"oh no, we would not be donating for Diwali, not this year"

"why not"

Two knocks from the leftmost door, one then a pause, then another, and almost immediately a maid--a different maid though with same hair, the same colour--rushing to open it up. The door had a rod of metal caged around it's iron frills, that you can pull to lock it in and then push again to open it out. And it opened to a man, Colonial Jabender, looking stiff and perpetually enraged at the intruder that had taken the form of her. 

"Jabender" said her mother without looking at him, or at her "how is it"

"not good, but you would be fine"

"well" she smiled "that is good enough for me", he did not smiled back. After it she went back to her room, he remaining there, coming a moment later and passing through the open door, Jabender, without looking back, following her. But then he paused, right at the door right when he was to close to it, when her mother was further away and already, as she walked without any care, keeping the door open, slightly, opening it over. 

"do you know anything of the thief" he asked 

"what"

"do you know anything of the scrounderal who ran away with the loom"

"I have just heard of the stealing" she answer coolly enough 

"well" he glared back "you should have known earlier, your mother is suffering enough"

Though he did not turned back, it was obvious or by her part presumed in his silence he was contemplating giving into this girl's demand however unreasonable or not, but silently he walked away nonetheless. The door closed, yet she couldn't hear neither his boots, nor it's metal crashing in. 

The room she was in was on the third floor, two rooms away, shaped like a diamond box with it's left wall all windows, several layers of curtain half drawn, looking down upon the running river--it's water running wild--built upon the bones, the _kabristan_ as we say, of beagams of those sultans who perished in battles east or west. But today it was exceptionally quiet, the river still ran though it was silent, the water still rushed though through shoes outside and in, nothing came off it, and instead it was only voices--each commanding the other, each fixing the other's mistake--the whole house readjusting itself withing the coming occasion of Diwali. And now it was only her left in there. 

And it was a guest's room. One was allowed to stay but not sleep, one was allowed to look, but not touch anything, and one was advised as gently as needed to leave as quickly after there her father had left. So she did. Closing the door with the same deliberate slowness he had always shown to the most respected of guests, to as if not disturb them in there observing.  Her own room was about two rooms away, a direct path taking roughly ten minutes and an indirect, shorter one--through bathrooms and kitchens--significantly shorter, and there it was, still molded, still dust ridden, 

 
