# Another Entrance To Our World 



It was said afterwords that her death lingered in each new day's fog. It lingered like lullaby of past lives, it stayed on like a smell of loved one over the edges of the village where each day the sound of water thundered over every nearby houses, it was said she might as well have been right, a life like that, was it even worth living, it was said that her father had, after all, knew what she knew, knew it all and was after all proud, wasn't he. It was said on morning of this January a little girl of some seven years age jumped into this wide ice like river, made it solid red for few harrowing hours, it was said justice for this girl had already been done, that her poor suffering family was already dead. Her family was already lynched, dragged out for this debauchery and made to make an example with there own hot red blood, dried but present where the door of her house began. It was said had they knew she was coming they would have bothered with there settlement somewhere else, but she didn't minded all that, clean it up was all she requested. It was clean now, late in the morning when the village when the heat of the afternoon had began to already seep and though no body could be found, no blood could be seen, the smell of death by slaughter was evident if not to her, than those who walked past it, made there little children turn there gaze away from it. Yes, it was already late in the morning, her mother hadn't arrived still, and the taxi that brought her here just ran away with everything. Tentatively, she rang the door. 

The village of Karamchi had in it's flag an eye of a dragon embolden, it was red because it was communist though now the communist were dead and it was flying high in front of this building. It had a wire running bright and bare over bricks old and melted and every day kids and adults alike would come to see this machination that was a ring which would buzz whenever they dared to press the button and simply run away. Every day then there would be rings, and after that you had to knock for those inside to consider 